# Alderforest

## Instructions

Alderforest is currently an Electron Babylon.js application. In order to run the game, you can either run Alderforest.app or Alderforest.exe in the release folder. If that doesn't seem to work and you already have Node/npm installed on your machine, you can otherwise run the game using `npm install && npm run electron:dev` or `npm install && npm run electron:dev`. The dev variant will include the dev console for error logging.

## Background Notes

The current build of the game, while unfortunately deeply unoptimized and riddled with a lot of bugs, represents one of the possible builds from the Insimul system that I've been working on for several years. Everything in the game has been procedurally generated in a way that is also completely editable by the user. The characters, the locations, the terrain, the items, the potential dialogue-- everything has been created or collated at some point by the Insimul system. What I'm finding is that the Insimul engine has been understandably optimized specifically for my language learning game, and therefore the rendering system needs to be better optimized for every type of game.

Insimul is able to generate game world content for many different world types and many different game genres. The goal is for it to be able to generate worlds in genres like High Fantasy, Low Fantasy, Sci-Fi, Cyberpunk, Post-Apocalyptic, Medieval, Victorian, Steampunk, Wild West, Superhero, Horror, and more. Another goal is for it to generate game genres like RPGs, action, fighting, platformer, strategy, survival, simulation, language-learning, adventure, and more. In addition to that, it should be able to generate games with different perspective templates, like 3D, 2D topdown, isometric, 2D sidescroller, VR, and more. It's an overly ambitious project, but I'd say it's at least 50-75% of the way there, with my PhD game representing only a small slice of what the engine should be capable of.

Ultimately, the Alderforest game will be an example of how Insimul can be used to procedurally generate wildly different types of worlds and game genres that can be quickly tested and iterated upon. My PhD dissertation game is a language learning game, whereas Alderforest will be a horror/mystery/puzzle game, so despite being generated by the same underlying system, the games will differ wildly. The Insimul system creates an entire geneaology, lore history, geography, cultural ruleset, action set, conlang system, and more. Currently, the most pressing issue with the game is the fact that Babylon.js is seemingly unable to load that amount of data without resulting in an atrocious framerate. I desperately need to optimize the game using culling, LOD, instance rendering, and so on in order to make the game more playable.
